do I call you Jake and Baker Jake Earth
Jake spot Jake you survived
okay so Jake can you tell me a little
bit about yourself and what we're
talking about today
I sure wait what is that one question or
two questions oh yeah we're gonna tell
you okay yeah my name's Jake and I'm
from LA okay and I am a stream on Twitch
I'm known primarily for like IRL
streaming or outdoor streaming I lived
in Japan for almost three years and
started doing IRL streaming out there
and then okay it kind of turned into
what I do now which is kind of crazy
um also fast and yeah a lot of people
know me for being out in Japan but I
recently moved back home to LA just to
kind of make a home base again okay in
the midst of kind of weird times but
yeah so I'm back home cool and yeah what
we talked about today I think is I
actually have I'm not I think it's just
general like anxiety stuff I struggled
it with it once when I was like 19 or so
and I kind of did some stuff myself and
I actually had totally got over it and I
was I'm good and then in the past couple
years outside maybe your and a half or
two years after streaming I definitely
it kind of came back and taken hold and
I I can like feel it and I kind of know
the duh I know what it feels like when
it happens I had before so that's kind
of like hearing lingering and I don't
know just okay I think or yeah I think
it's we're going to be talking about
I've never talked to anybody about it
like actually ever so I've no no idea or
expectation you know yeah that's it let
me see if I can I had a feeling
something like this might happen let me
see if I um so that's really cool Jake
so you said that you struggled with
anxiety for a little bit when you were
19 and then it got better and then maybe
it's it's gotten good or it's it started
to come back a little bit since you
started streaming is that fair to say uh
yeah I guess yeah sure okay
and can you tell me just a little bit
about how you decided to go to Japan
sure I went to university in LA and then
after university I had an opportunity to
study Chinese in China for two years
so I went there for two years then I
came back to LA and actually started
working at a start-up for a year and
after a year I was like I just felt like
I was the most alive when I was kind of
a broad and uncomfortable and learning
something and I just I me decided to
save up some money quit my job and go to
Japan for one year to study Japanese in
which case I just started streaming when
I went there and then that one year of
Japanese learning turned into me
streaming now for you know however many
years and everything kind of like 118
based on you know 118 118 from what I
thought you know what would happen so
what did you think would happen I mean I
original plan was go for years study
Japanese come back home and just
continue working with hopefully like
it's just a more built up or improved
version of myself you know with another
language ability or something and just
continue working you know but yeah I've
been just kind of accepted can I tell
that can you tell me what what IRL
streaming or like like outdoor streaming
or what is that and what were you
streaming in Japan yeah sounds like one
I mean I was yeah it's crazy fun IRL
streaming is some people say in your
life I call it incorporating real life
but it's just you know streaming
outdoors whether it be and isn't it to
be outdoors I'm sorry but something that
is could be I guess like a real life
experience that's my idea is like
streaming a real life experience so for
me I wanted to base it around like okay
I wanted the kind of stream my life as
it developed in Japan because I went out
by myself I didn't have any friends and
I wanted to kind of stream that
experience for everyone which I think
people started to like cool yeah and and
so are you still streaming in LA yeah so
I moved back I mean the idea was to move
back because everything kind of changed
more to like traveling and exploring on
more of a like
a bit more planned content type of stuff
some ideas just to have a home base and
travel from here quite often actually
but ever still streaming I mean doing a
lot more computer streams now but just
for the time being while the world kind
of settles down I think and yeah yeah so
everything's still this uh they are
still streaming yeah just formats a
little bit different yeah and can you
tell me a little bit about when you said
that you had anxiety when you were 19
like that's quite specific can you tell
me what yeah what was going on or what
you mean by them sure
I'm a yeah I've always kind of
referenced this on my stream I guess but
I think I was like 18 or 19 and I had
really bad anxiety which I didn't know
at the time what it was when it first
started feeling how I felt um and how
did you what did you feel can you tell
us that yeah so at that time it was it
was a very like it was it was
it was a feeling of like constant like
nervousness and I don't like fear but I
was just very very worried person at the
time and I mean I don't know if I want
to talk about there I mean there I guess
the root of the warrior what I really
felt that time was I got you know I
didn't go outside a lot of stuff I
wouldn't go outside to like a big public
events I wouldn't like I wouldn't I
always worry about weird things like
like what oh no oh gosh uh it's okay
that I'm irrational thoughts yeah sure I
mean I was worried about things like if
I went out to a public event and uh
because I always have like stomach aches
and like nervous stomach I'm like oh
what if I can't find a bathroom or like
where's the exit at a at a movie theater
like it would be weird like I would go
to a movie theater and I'd have to know
where the I could start where the
bathroom is I guess I'd to go to the
bathroom
mhm it sounds really weird but it's not
that weird but we'll get yeah ii yeah
sure yeah it those were like the outside
the surface feelings I would have about
okay exactly that time and it was kind
of like Oliver is like deep debility is
that the word debilitating
sure so exact yeah definitely affect
like my normal life and what's crazy
about that is that growing up I was
always like happy-go-lucky and like when
people mention exactly in high school
I'd be like like what's that like we'd
be talking about dude like just don't
worry so much but like it just hit me
like kind of randomly and I was like
well at first I thought it was a
physical problems I went to the doctor
and I got you're fine I was like and I
was like - and then I had to kind of
figure it out and it took a little bit
of steps and a lot of like
self-realization and like mindset
changes actually and I think I really
grew a lot out of that when I came out
of that and can you tell us about steps
what were the steps sure um at the time
I kind of slowly realized after like
doing my little research and talking to
my friends like okay I think I just am
struggling from anxiety like this word
and I never talked to anybody really
about it except for my best friend's and
basically after I realized what it was I
just would look up different what swords
Solutions but like different MEC like
different things that people would do to
kind of get over their anxiety and I
would just tried the little ones like
meditating or just what else did you try
or what seemed to work uh for meals kind
of just trying to find what the root of
it was and just like like a little weed
that was in there and I'd dig it out
like just attack it head first and
figure out what is their root cause and
figure that out and then like I have a
total mindset change that actually so
Mike got me what of it what do you think
was the root so what I think the root
was at that time was I was fearing the
future I was fearing things like death
like that not specific oh my god I'm
framing to die tomorrow like I wasn't
like that but it was definitely some
weird fear and I think those because I
was actually brought up like very
religious and for some reason after high
school a lot of things hearted changing
and you know what I was doing and my
really finding my own path I think a lot
of fears for like adding up of like you
know like after I started feeling a
little bit weird I'd be like oh man what
if I'm sick like homie I would have you
know what if I was into like die and I
was like fear these things and I think
it honestly was because I don't know I
think goes I think someone had to do is
the religion poured of my life can you
tell us already yeah I just brought up
super Christian I guess I go into church
all the time and I stopped going and I
was like 17 or 18 just because I just
didn't feel like it was for me and then
so you know I hear people say this
actually a fair amount super Christian
it's not just Christian it's like super
yeah super Christians like Forks super
Christians like your mom like Mesa coach
every Sunday if you don't go to church
then you're like ground like you're in
trouble and like it's and you know you I
can't I can't play games with any blood
in it and I can't watch The Simpsons and
that's super what's wrong with The
Simpsons I don't know it probably has
like you know like anti-semitic or an
Tyson would submit not somatic somatic
and just anti-christian like jokes or
something anima yeah I've never heard
anything religious on the Simpsons but
you know I haven't hey that's that's why
it's super Christian is because I mean
baking people can find something out of
nothing so interesting and so what was
it like growing up in in that kind of
house so it sounds like your mom was was
quite religious what about your dad uh
no my dad really wasn't that really just
he's my mom's like typically very
conservative and super Christian not
that's a bad thing I mean that's just a
mom and then my dad is just more
aggressive just more like I don't know
if the word liberal it's not like a
political word all the time is it more
like very like maybe Ella I guess just
you know purpose I think I'm open minded
in it sounds like it may be less rigid
and a little bit more flexible maybe
that's deaf definitely he's I don't
always talk to him whenever there's like
anything going on in high school or some
serious hanger you know do you have
siblings one Brenda and is is your
brother religious no he's kind of the
same as me I think around you know you
always go to church growing up in high
school I think he just found his own
kind of path as well so me and my
brother and my dad had a very kind of
various than that and then my mom is yep
so I and your brothers will do a younger
hold it by eight years oh wow that's a
little bit older and and what was
y'all's relationship like when you were
growing up I mean it's he's quite a bit
older than you right so yeah it was uh
it was pretty I think standard like you
know pick on me come the younger kid but
like as we got older we as I got to be
like 20 I think and out of high school
we definitely started getting cool more
clothes and now we're actually very
close we actually live in like the same
apartment complex when I moved back and
like we hang out almost every day but I
would say it was very typical there's an
yeah just sibling eight years older and
you know just the normal pick on you
younger kids you're younger check our
younger brother kind of stuff it sure
and and so you said that you felt like
some of your kind of fear of a few
or death and it's okay to like yeah how
can I say this it's perfectly fine to
say things that sound like they don't
make sense or are like super
psychoanalytic and yeah I'm also
probably more hesitant saying it because
like I know people are watching so like
I'm trying not to make that effect
anything I'm not looking at anything but
like definitely eyes like a sure what my
brain is trained do what what effect
does that have let's talk about that
what effect does that have on you that
people are watching uh I don't know I've
always been someone doesn't I try not to
really care about people think about me
I've always kind of been that way in my
life but I think over years of streaming
it's just knowing it's not like I'm
trying to appeal to anybody play it's
just maybe you do have a little bit of
feeling of what people are thinking like
what they're saying about what you're
saying like and and and so it sounds
like it occupies it how can I say this
so it sounds like knowing that people
are watching even if you try to not let
it affect you
occupies a little bit of space in your
mind and there's really no way of
getting at around that yes
yeah out it's pretty hard I didn't I
haven't really I mean I would assume
most streamers have that little
occupancy yeah so you know this is one
of the advantages of being a boomer is
that I tend to be oblivious to most
things so it's easy for me to forget
you'll get there one day man you just
need you know it sounds like you're
crossing 30 and just give it a couple of
years and once once you don't recognize
what kids say like once you don't
understand terminology on Twitch or
don't understand the games that people
are playing or this is a big one do you
have a younger person who helps you with
setup your technology no I mean see
that's not a boomer then see you to
become a real boomer you have to have
someone who helps you set up your
technology which you thought I knew how
to set up okay and so that's when you're
gonna be a real boomer and that's when
you'll become impervious to the opinions
of people on the Internet
but not really impervious
no one's impervious but looking forward
to it you'll get some damage resistance
okay good so tell me a little bit about
like when you were saying you know you
felt like some of the your fears of
death which I know sounds like so
grandiose but you know some of your
fears were rooted in your religious
upbringing can you help us understand a
little bit about like how those two
things are tied together and even if
it's not like a you know like a
one-to-one sure uh yeah again I don't
think back the full root of that you
holding teddy was just like oh I'm
afraid to die it's like yeah what I'm
trying to say but there's just so some
aspects of like all of you worried about
like going like just things I couldn't I
don't know just stupid stuff but okay as
far as that specific question cuz like
you know in church you're taught like
okay if you don't believe in the perfect
way to believe and believe in in this
scenario Jesus in blah blah like you go
to hell mm-hmm sounds like oh damn like
if I if I was in the die I'm gonna go to
hell like in about that was a little
tiny fear at the time right now I mean
that doesn't occupy or it's definitely
not an issue right now but at that time
that was I think I was in it and like I
was like you know looking up on the
internet like conspiracy theories and
like just like end of the world stuff at
the time and those it was like so stupid
not looking back but that was a huge
that's what cost a lot of stuff a lot of
my problems I think was I like this
constant bombarding of worrying about
what's going to be in the future in sure
yeah so so yeah what are you worried
about particular aspects of the future
sounds like yeah I mean a definite
afterlife is one of them but like were
there particular things like sometimes
people worry about being alone or they
worry about you know not being respected
or able to support themselves or living
up to their potential I honestly I think
I was just fearful of like I think the
root of it was the death thing and that
effort like after I'd be more and more
like if your fraud always just continue
looking up things about like how bad the
world like what's happening to the world
right now in ohm mine like into they say
honestly into the world stuff like it
was kind of weird like 2012 weird like
just stuff that I it's I don't know I
kind of giggle at it now what yeah does
it sound kind of embarrassing to say
that stuff it definitely it's definitely
embarrassing but I don't know I think a
lot of people kind of did that I was an
Internet person I was always on there
and being you know in putting so much
and trying to zip through it and yeah
yeah so Jake let me offer if it's okay I
want to offer like one or two thoughts
about your feeling of embarrassment
is that cool yep which is the first
thing is that like everyone feels like
their anxiety doesn't make sense
everyone like but it's not you know
anxiety is not designed to sort of make
sense it's not it's just not how it
works like our mind is a thinking
machine and sometimes it generates
thoughts that don't make sense and
that's actually perfectly okay like like
voicing thoughts that feel irrational to
you doesn't make you a stupid person
it's just your mind just comes up with
that [ __ ] yeah
and and when you look up stuff how did
it affect your anxiety I mean it was
just add to it like I think about more
things like pile on more [ __ ] yeah so so
then let's think about that for a second
so what you know what what did you gain
and I and I want to acknowledge that you
did get something right so let me maybe
put it another way
how are you satisfied by looking up
something on the internet because it
sounds like it fueled your anxiety but
what did you like you know because I'm
guessing getting a sense that you were
hungry for something you would do a
Google search and then you would read
something and then you'd feel satisfied
even though your anxiety would increase
does that make sense yeah yeah there's
like
I might have been getting a feeling of
satisfaction by by thinking that I was
like obtaining some knowledge that I
wish everyone else knew like you guys
need to know this like come on like this
is happening like yeah that's probably
cuz I'd like to talk to my friends about
it Meg I wasn't like I don't know yeah
I'm gonna give you that at that from if
I think about it I'd be my answer I
think that would make sense like okay
you've been thinking back I think that's
a feeling that I would get sure so so so
you were learning something that other
people didn't know did you feel like
doing research helped you prepare I mean
I didn't really prepare cuz nothing
happened but I feel yeah yeah sure right
so like there's an unknown there's a
problem out there that like maybe the
world could end and like what are you
gonna do about because your anxieties
like what are you gonna do about that
yeah
does that question make sense it's like
we got to do something right so like
anxiety drives you to do something great
so let mean you have to plan you have to
know where the exits are you have to
know where the bathrooms are you have to
know when the world is gonna end
yeah yeah I mean it's almost like a sigh
this is a cycle like it's fueling itself
I guess yeah is that how it felt to you
I mean until I stopped doing that yeah
so how did you okay so you said
something about a change in mindset so
what what changed for you how are you
able to stop indulging sure I've always
thought that I'm like a pretty like like
strong-willed person and what when I
when I like realized okay like Jake
you're doing something wrong you need to
realize what's going on here
I actually just really thought about the
route like the deepest route of what
could cause this and for me the deepest
route was like I was like if you go down
the trail it's like okay if the world
ended what's the worst that can happen
you're gonna die and then I took that
out as like that's the deep history of
what's causing this
so I just literally like thought to
myself this is like it sounds so stupid
in like it's some don'ts gotta just
speak okay sorry sorry
I do evil I do have a lot of what's that
humor called me just appreciate about
yourself
self-deprecating yeah it's like anyway
so it's good in bed but anyway okay so I
I just created a mindset and I pulled
myself like this and I told myself this
over and over again at this time was all
right well don't worry about all this
other [ __ ] and basically creative
mindset where if you were to die
tomorrow you want to be happy for the
life that you live today and everything
before so with that mindset it like
actually like completely it's not like
one idea welcome to next day a thank you
Matt and was fine but they had
completely changed everything okay after
I created that mindset for myself I
started like every day working on myself
like physically like not crazy Jim Chad
but like I would I would like you know
make conscious decisions to wick a
little earlier go on a little jog start
working out I would start eating
healthier I would like basically use all
of my time that I had to be very
productive and with the mindset that if
I was at that tomorrow I'd be happy for
everything I did and that's what
actually caused me to go to like China
and stuff like that was like I just
thought I would basically try to take
risks and make decisions that would make
me like proud of the life that I was
living and it sounds great man that was
like actually yeah I was in honesty I
was in like bliss like after I came out
of it I gave you I was 20 and I came out
of like a longer they ship to but that
the relationship was not a she like
actually like a big thing in my head at
the time but anyway after that I came
after relation if you go you weren't
working out but after that I was in like
bliss I was in probably the happiest
time yeah there's a very just I don't
know very positive and fury yeah time
yeah so let me ask you something like
that what do you what do you think would
have happened Jake if you never got that
anxiety at the age of 19 what do you
think you'd be right now honestly I
might have just gone normal route and
like just went to college so I working a
marketing firm and not really done what
I did
yeah I mean yeah so think about that no
yeah totally when I I've always looked
back at that and been like and and it's
made me realize a lot of things like
when there are you know you have to have
downs to know the ups you have to kind
of see a little darkness to appreciate
the light and like things like that
always thought but yeah I mean well I
mean that's that sounds like a little
bit of an understatement to me to be
honest it sounds like a generalization
like you there have to be downs to be
ups sounds like a safe and logical thing
to say but what I'm hearing from you is
that you know your anxiety altered the
course of your life in a drastic way you
know is that what do you think is up
with that like do you think that that's
how do you understand that or do you not
really think about it much or um well no
I uh
maybe I don't think about it now it's
kinda just become normal for me but I
can definitely say that it made me learn
a lot about myself at that time because
I was someone who's like oh I can never
get anxiety I always thought like what
is this I can I'm fine I'm happy I'm a
hat like hmm but but I got it like I
didn't know what it was and it was kind
of scary and then they made me realize a
lot about myself and kind of how I
wanted to live after you know like yep
yeah hmm and so you went to China
sounds like you use the word bliss yeah
yeah I don't know if that's the right
word but uh sure this yeah
just speak your truth man it doesn't
have to be right yeah okay and and then
you went to Japan and and when did the
anxiety start to creep in yes
so I mean started maybe I would say
let's just say a year and a half ago or
more like around a year and a half ago
yeah I would say I specifically remember
like the first day I like I remember
actually the first day I felt the
feeling of anxiety and like right away I
was like holy [ __ ] cuz like there's some
times in life like in kissing sure I do
want to say though that there are some
times in life or
throughout this blissful time that it
was like I'd catch myself back oh my god
you're a little nervous Jake breathe
like I would catch myself out breathe
out relax and like I'd be fine
but anyways about let's say two years
ago or a year and a half ago in Japan I
had the feeling of like [ __ ] Jake yellow
anxiety or now calm down and it didn't
really go away like it usually does it
was actually on New Year's Day of 2019
Year's Day 2019 okay do you remember I
just came back from seeing my family in
LA and I did a crazy New Year's Eve
stream in Japan like they're like the
craziest streams like just out partying
all night and just having a really
insane stream and then I was supposed to
stream the next day on New Year's Day
and I just I was like mentally just not
feeling like I was like dude like I just
don't want to go outside or now I just I
was kind of like first time you know in
ever since being in Japan or being
streaming that I felt that way and I
remember talking about all my discord a
little bit with Mike my viewers and
stuff and uh it was weird because I was
like it's a big day
first you know but yeah I mean that's
the first day that I had it and it
slowly would be more and more and then
it's been kind of since that last
year-and-a-half been kind of just up and
down I can feel the exact same symptoms
I had before you know a little mental
and physical stuff that's being
effectively yeah that's it that's about
a year and half ago I guess yeah so and
what are you when you're what are the
what kind of thoughts do you have good
breathing by the way oh thanks I did a
little yoga this morning good for you
that's a very that's a very open-ended
question and I know it's supposed to be
like that so I'm trying not to think too
much about it before I answer I
timer right now at that time um at that
time I just thought like alright you're
just going through a little like maybe a
couple days they're just feeling a
little nervous anxiety maybe a little
bit too much going on maybe just need to
relax and chill if you don't you know
don't drink so much because and when I
went to Japan socially you do drink a
lot when you meet people and I was like
the majority of my stream is going out
and exploring and meeting meeting people
and you know they just don't drink and
chill and you'll be fine I wasn't yeah
is your anxiety continued to grow do you
remember what kind of thoughts you had
like let's say like end of 2019 or like
fall of 2019 would what we were so in
the past it was you know your anxiety
used to tell you you have to find the
exits maybe who had some fear of death
yeah what kind of thoughts do you have
now now my thoughts and I don't think
these thoughts are triggers for the
anxiety I think that they are a cycle of
adding to what I have but now I'm sure
what thinking damn Jake you have these
same symptoms like I feel very like
fuzzy thoughts like I'm just I feel very
like my mental is not as sharp and when
I first started mentioning as mushrooms
like are you just getting old like it's
so normal and maybe maybe that is part
of it and maybe I'm just overthinking
that I'm just becoming a little more
slow but it's like recognized
it's like recognizable to me um my
vision is like become super blurry in
the past year and a half like like it's
insane I was always like 20/20 and then
like I don't know it's just there's like
physical things okay any chance you've
seen an optometrist recently I went
weeks ago yeah here actually and
goodrich gave me clip glasses that are
coming soon but you know it was nice I
mean it's a relief it's a relief to go
and like just to rule out that there's
any physical problem it's very nice but
um what I know to be honest I'm I'm Oh
am I afraid of shoot okay well my first
answer is I'm afraid that there is
something like a little physical problem
like with me that I don't know that sure
which is actually really bad because
that leads back to my you know good time
without always fear what's the you know
fear okay and what would it mean if you
had a physical problem that you'd be I
mean that would be I don't know what
that mean yeah I mean I don't underst
question what's the significance if you
did have a physical problem let's assume
it was true then I guess that would just
I don't know I mean it would suck or
would talk about it that it could
answer that okay that's okay um do you
feel okay not knowing how to answer some
questions it's not like there's a right
answer it's just you know sometimes I
can ask a bad question frequently are
you okay well I don't know I know it's
finally I ask away I just don't know
like how to answer oh it's like about I
mean I guess I just not gonna fall back
to what I was already talking about what
I've got over is like okay what's the
first could happen like okay you're
saying you could just die so he's
thinking yeah so so okay let's point out
what just happened Jake okay so you're
doing good buddy
stay with me okay nice pink train uh-huh
big bad I knew whose Binx who's doing
this for not being spanked no not that
well don't speak but you know I smell
like um you know I I understand I think
it's fair for you to feel like you're
being spanked but who's doing the
spanking that makes sense you know right
now I'm kind of spanking myself because
I'm yet realizing that there that this
isn't a majority I really don't think
this is a dirty of what started the
cause of this right now but it
definitely has become now a part of what
yeah well mines ideas right now it
Derick Andreea and yeah let me let me
understand so I think you were I think
you had answers for my questions I just
don't think you liked them or weren't
comfortable saying them because you gave
us a little clue there so I think what
the silence was was actually like
conflict within you is that fair or were
you just drawing a blank
no it's not I mean I had like answers
inside me I just like thinking is that
you don't want to say them yeah yeah so
so thanks for giving us a glimpse cuz I
think that that's enough to get us
started and and you know it's okay to
not give us a glimpse but I'll tell you
a little bit more about glimpses in a
second so the first thing is that what I
kind of heard from you is like let me
know if this is right okay so you didn't
precisely say this but it's kind of like
well if I do have something wrong with
me then like maybe I could die but oh
[ __ ] like we already dealt with that
that was like back when we were 19 so
like I don't want it to be that again
like I thought that that was taken care
of yeah
what do you think about that that fair
yeah no that's that that's totally fair
that's why I was kind of like weird
answering that way but I but these are
just these are thoughts I've had after
the after what I feel like was my like
when I started getting anxiety again
which I really at the time I'm just like
I thought it was there was no thoughts
of that in my head at that like when it
first year first day and and that's so
like the anxiety has definitely kind of
nuts nope snow balled maybe into like
adding on extra little things now which
is like [ __ ] not to start like pruning
more [ __ ] off before I can get to that
root again and ah yeah yeah so so here's
here's what I'm hearing from you is that
you don't want to say that answer
because temporarily your anxiety it's
sure it's become maybe a fear of death
again but that happened later after the
snowball started forming so that's not
you're telling yourself that that's not
the right answer because you started
experiencing anxiety before you started
thinking about death maybe yeah so
you're kind of discounting that even
though that's the answer that pops into
your head yeah yeah have you started
feeling old recently uh no I think okay
yeah I don't think that's ever been like
a thought yep I mean you know this chat
says you're boomer and it's laugh at it
like yeah I'm joke haha I'm going bald
but like I don't what about your mental
not being as sharp how long have you
been feeling that way um honestly just
like says the exact since I started
feeling anxiety which which was this was
like the key thing of when I was like 19
or so I was the same I was very foggy
like I remember like I remember like
specifically when I was young like when
anxiety I remember like when I turn my
head and I try to look I couldn't focus
on things like right away I was like a
physical thing that caught that would
that was like one physical thing that I
had to Aniyah anxiety
mm-hm and I noticed that right away
you're gonna have to go I was like holy
crap like I'm getting anxiety again like
I realized I was like [ __ ]
you gotta figure this out okay yeah
that's it one thing I think yeah Jake
I'm gonna offer a couple of thoughts
okay the first is that I get the sense
that you're trying to give us a the
right answer so I don't want the right
answer there isn't the right answer
I just want whatever's in your head is
irrational and as stupid as it is
because I don't think it's irrational or
stupid and even if you feel it's
irrational or stupid like I'm even happy
with you sharing with me what your
struggle to speak is so even if you
can't give me an answer if you can share
with me why you can't give me an answer
that would be awesome okay so what we
want is a window into your mind because
like basically we're gonna look under
the hood of the car
yeah please and and and so like for
example this whole process of like you
kind of saying I don't know how to
answer that I think you had answers but
something kept you from sharing those
answers because you were judging what
your answers were there was judgment
there that kept you from speaking does
that make sense yeah yeah EE I mean yeah
yeah I'm gonna overthink way too much
right so so even there so like like what
was that was that bad that no what was
that how do we describe that I overthink
way too much if I admitting something am
i real it was it a UH it's a judgment oh
okay right so this kind of also goes
back to self deprecating like it's true
yeah I'm very very self-deprecating and
I don't I hope that hasn't affected me
like made it worse yeah so I think that
there's a certain amount of humor to
that which is completely fine but do you
judge yourself frequently
do you mean like just like I just did
when I said yeah I mean yeah yeah oh
yeah I guess all the time yeah so I
usually do it very light-hearted they
usually say typically it's very
light-hearted sure I I'm with that cuz I
don't think you you strike me so some
people like weigh themselves down with
heavy judgement you're in you know these
are people who like tell themselves that
they're ugly or pieces of [ __ ] or things
like that you strike me as someone who's
quite confident and and has generally
speaking like a positive outlook so I
don't think you judge yourself in the
same way is like the heavy judgments
okay yeah yeah that's fair but I still
think that you have a very a relatively
common subtle judgement going on that
because you're a relatively resilient
guy you can use humor as a defense
mechanism and kind of like laugh it off
but you still judge yourself in ways
that you can handle but you're still
doing it does that make sense yes it
does make sense and you've been doing
that your whole life for I actually
probably I guess yeah I mean I've always
been like the class clown that developed
into probably that kind of weird using
jokes or something to always have a
fallback there it is that rears it like
a bad no no it's just it makes me want
to ask a fall but like a like a fallback
from what like what are you falling back
from oh I don't know like that's not I
could I'm just I don't know like I would
just say things mmm oh man I don't know
what do you feeling I'm trying
what I fall back from I don't know if
there's anything specific yeah yeah I
know what are you feeling right now
Oh is you think about what to fall back
from like something happened like you
started smiling a lot but I don't think
it was I think it was like a deflecting
smile that's it a very I smile a lot and
a lot a lot is deflecting and I see it
made fun of her smiling actually sorry
random mm-hm
so so what happened if you didn't make a
joke what do you think would have
happened when you were for lack of a
better term and I realize I'm asking you
really a broad question when you were
yeah is there some weird-ass random
thought that pops into your head if I
ask a broad question yeah what would
happen if you didn't make a joke growing
up what were you afraid of I don't know
maybe I just liked people laugh like I
just liked I mean I like to I like to
reactions definitely that's maybe that's
okay reactions and that's definitely
yeah that's been a good and bad thing in
my life I think I like reactions okay
that's maybe a yeah maybe I fished too
much for reactions do you yeah
definitely I mean yeah yep why not like
what do reactions do for you they tell
me about people what do they tell you
about people hmm this is good weird
okay sorry I thought we
like I gotta watch how I say things no
no no it is it no Jake that's a great
thing to say man cuz it's I was about to
say that's what we [ __ ] do here man
okay it gets weird that means we're
doing it right like if I said something
like kind of weird or obscure and then I
use a joke like a laugh or a joke as a
fallback after I say the weird and
obscure thing you can see how someone
reacts and then like kind of get a
feeling of like what they think about
that and if it's a bad feeling they get
then you can fall back on the laughs and
it's like a knot it's like normal then
you can like wow it's okay yeah so let's
think about that it was there a
particular that feeling of saying
something weird in getting that reaction
do you remember a time in your life
where like you said something and you
got that reaction really really
powerfully and you were like nope never
gonna do that again
specific I can think okay I can't think
I can think about that I'm you've been
doing in in this Paul with you I'm
definitely the unpacking yeah I'm like
saying I'm saying that's weird I'm
actually kind of curious like I'm not
like weirdly curious but in back when
I'm like kind of curious like this you
think that's weird like yep and Molly
and that's that's so can I put words to
that yes yes yeah how you doing Jake
that's not honestly I'm a little nervous
I have no expectations Billy I've never
talked to anybody like that's you know
that knows you know how are these has
some professional background into things
so this is kind of cool for me okay so
what I'm hearing is a fear of judgment
right
you're gauging how we're gonna judge you
and and and if we don't judge you in the
right way then you've got to fall back
right and then you can alter our
judgment by making a joke correct and
then and then so we're gonna we're gonna
try okay we're gonna play a little game
so say something to me anything [ __ ] I
got to do this problem I'm gonna try to
keep a face okay so what I'm gonna do so
you're gonna say something I'm gonna do
my best to be neutral or negative okay
and then I want you to notice how you
feel and then see yourself want to crack
a joke okay okay but I got out okay okay
wow you're in Patagonia I think only a
bunch of Chad's were Patagonia now
good on you you feel it just wait what
do you do are you trying to like no why
don't you what when I didn't say
anything what did you do like what how
did you feel did it work I'm not I can't
tell not then I was scared that you
thought I was serious and that you that
you're actually upset that I don't like
your Patagonia Jackie which I like and
then and then what do you do I just
joked about it I said Nadia is cool so
when you thought I was serious for a
second like did you get that feeling I
mean I was also trying to roleplay like
you break too broke it down but yeah I
did a little bit yeah right and if it
was a real-life scenario definitely have
that yep
right so that's so like and then and
then like what is that feeling what does
it feel like feels like pressure of
worrying about like damn they might not
like me because they thought I was or
because of what I said sounded stupid or
mean or something
yeah or dumb is it okay to not be liked
yeah that's fine
I mean easy to say but yeah I mean it is
okay to not be liked do you believe that
um maybe maybe not
I Wow
it's a good question dr. kay I think
that I don't worry about if people like
me but I don't like when people is this
really weird no stop it's not weird
I don't care good you're like I'm not
trying to be everyone's best friend
maybe but I do care about if people
dislike me mm-hmm
because I always feel like I don't I'm
not I I I feel like keep going buddy
I figure there's a way to not that
there's a way where you don't need to
dislike someone whether it's just
knowing them more or figuring out what a
problem was or something I don't know
so let me ask you a different question
is it okay for you to be disciplined
yeah yes you sure yes yeah I don't know
maybe yeah maybe I'm just being weird
now no I'm not should I stop saying that
that's a bad hat by the way you can even
ask my like viewers here I'm a lot like
I always say I'm so like I say I'm weird
a lot and that's really bad probably
okay anyways uh even you're judging the
weirdness and you're calling it bad you
know it's gonna it's recursive it'll go
back until the end of time which is okay
just notice it it's just how you are
it's not good or bad it's just how you
are there are good things about it
they're bad things about it we can talk
about that in a second but let's stick
with this are you are you okay being
disliked
yeah I I think yeah even looking what I
just said son oh yeah I'll say like just
the simple answer is yes yeah definitely
okay being disliked yeah okay so I know
that this is gonna sound weird but that
makes perfect I think both statements
are true so I think that like so we tend
to think about our mind is like a
monolith it's like one thing whereas
really what we are is like our mind is
actually like it's like a party of NPCs
who each do kind of whatever they want
to and our goal is to sort of get the
NPC's to move in the same direction and
we want to like Zone into this raid and
like do the raid and sometimes they will
to work after something huh does you
know I play World of Warcraft wrestling
I sorry I heard you make these things
like okay they're good I mean I just use
gaming analogies and like most of it
tends to be MOBAs in RPGs because that's
what I play by oh yeah all right keep it
going yeah so like it's like you know
you're you're with this group of people
and like so I think that it's it's weird
Jake because there's a part of you who I
think is genuinely confident mature and
resilient and then there are also like
nights at your round table that are
concerned about dislike are concerned
about getting old and are concerned
about dying mm-hmm right in that Spectre
which you judge yourself or you judge
yourself for like oh [ __ ] I thought we
dealt with that it's like it's like
zombie it's like you killed it once and
it's back again yeah and so you've got
to be careful because I think like
you're doing a very subtle thing where
you're even though that's the answer
that pops up in your mind your
reluctance for that answer to be true
allows you to ignore it can you say that
was less yes more time so like like even
though something pops up in your mind
mm-hmm your reluctance for it to be true
pushes you to just ignore it feel like I
don't want it to be true I don't want to
be afraid of death again
yeah whereas I would be surprised are
you still living every day and every day
I don't mean most days I mean
are there days where you live where
you're no longer thinking about if I die
tomorrow would I be happy are you
starting to think about the future um
yeah I don't live like that every day
anymore
definitely yep and is there a
correlation between not living that way
in the resurgence of your anxiety yeah I
mean I was I think so but yeah yeah I
also I also want to like just say that
something that I think has been a key
that I've just realized in the timing of
all this is I think streaming has
changed a lot of how I live it's
actually changed out of it completely
tell us about mom well when I first went
to Japan I went there to live for a year
and come back right and I just started
distri I happened to stream it was like
a I did it everyday but it wasn't I
wasn't there to stream I just had the
stream following me and after you know
six or eight months of like damn this
stream has blown up and I need to really
focus on this it turned into you just
this is like realization I've thought of
that I think is a lot but it's turned it
turned into me living my life in the
stream seeing what my life was to me
living the stream and my life was just
following mm-hmm and I think that is for
me the biggest trigger for this anxiety
recently and I might be wrong but I
really do think I know myself and I know
the changes I like what changes in my
life and this was the craziest change
I've ever had and I'm not
I mean I'll just voice I'm always
worried about saying that because I'm a
little worried about the judgement from
the viewers who are like oh did you just
stream like you just make a bunch of
money and all you do is go around and
get drunk with like I understand that
argument but I always I'll just say that
it's definitely somehow he's why don't
talk about it a lot but it still was um
definitely a big change in my life and
once I I realized that more so recently
of you know it change from the stream
fall in my life to my life just being
the stream and my life kind of just
trailing behind me yeah and uh you know
I try to take slow steps and to try and
balance that back out to kind of live my
life again and that's like LA was one
move all the timing kind of sucks with
everything going on you know being
around and trying to start my little
healthy habits a little again um but
yeah a lot of my middle space is most of
my mental space in the past couple years
is just purely dedicated to you stream
like everything around being online and
everything which it was always like that
so yeah so I think that makes a lot of
sense Jake so can I have a moment to
collect my thoughts
yeah please are you playing an ad right
now no okay sorry I didn't know if I was
like an ad thing or something I don't
know
I mean sometimes people run ads and I
just um but I'm not I'm working with pen
and paper bro like everything anybody's
okay I'm gonna need a minute
[Music]
all right either this is gonna either
I'm going to lose you guys completely
order this is going to be helpful almost
there
okay
boy it's gonna be hard to find the words
to say this okay so I'm just gonna start
talking oh okay I'm sorry you're scared
right now but I'm ready no no it's a
mean the reason I'm you know I
understand you're afraid but what I'm
saying is like it's just like I'm trying
to I feel like I've wrapped my head
around something but I don't know how to
explain what I've wrapped my head around
sounds like me everyday I'm ready so the
first thing that we're gonna kind of
start in the present right so there's
there is Jake and bake and then there is
Jake and these are two different people
and it used to be that Jake was the one
who is living life and Jake and bake was
following along and now it started to
happen is like you started to become
more Jake and bake in less Jake and
overtime you know so there's like the
character and there's you and and I
think you described it really well that
like you used to just live your life and
that was like Jake was the guy who woke
up and said I want to be able to die
tomorrow with no regrets
that was never Jake and bake in fact the
anxiety was the idea of you dying a
thousand days in the future and like
regretting that thousand days which is
different about there's a difference
between like dying tomorrow and living a
life that isn't good enough because
you're gonna go to hell
it's like a summation of your entire
life it becomes greater than today
mm-hmm okay so Jake and bake I think
then starts to like the more you eat the
more the steam grows then you're like oh
this is a thing which is like but
remember that Jake grew out of a
completely different thought process
than like this is a real thing now he
didn't care if it was a real thing he
just did today and once the stream
becomes real then you end up with New
Year's night where it's huge and it's
great and the next day Jake didn't want
to go out and stream and Jake and bake
said you got a stream bro because it's a
real thing and so like on that day Jake
and bake took over
and he said like hey man like it's not
about you anymore it's about me and and
so this right so and it was hard because
when Jacob Baek takes over like Jake's
not ready for it and then you kind of
stay at home and and whatnot so fun so
now like we get into it another problem
which is that once Jake and Baek takes
over there's a particular vulnerability
that you have which is that you've
always been someone who is watching the
reactions of other people mm-hmm and so
if you have a mind that watches the
reactions of other people and can be
self-deprecating and can cause them to
smile that is like that is just lighter
fuel for Jake and Baek right because
like you take a guy who's very tuned in
to like not wanting to be disliked and
now we see the struggle because like at
times Jake and Baek speaks and Jake and
Baek says yeah I really don't want to be
disliked it's not okay for me to be
disliked it makes me deeply
uncomfortable when I look at someone and
I can't make this file but the funny
thing is that Jake is there too and Jake
is like I embrace discomfort and I
challenged myself and I took the road
less traveled and I survived and I can
be confident in Who I am and there
really are people that have disliked me
in the past and I can be completely fine
with that mm-hmm but Jake and Baek there
is also there and he's kind of like
looking at the judgments of oh he's like
watching the faces of other people like
you see that like you're confident you
but then Jake and Baek is in the back
and he's like watching the faces of
other people in psycho [ __ ] that guy
doesn't like me better attack a joke
hmm so that's how you are and then like
Jake and Baek sort of [ __ ] feeds on
that is its fertile soil mm-hmm and then
it starts to get worse right so like the
Jake and Baek sort of takes over on
January 1st 2019 and he takes over for
just one day and then in on a given day
it's like Jake is piloting or Jake in
Vegas piloting and depending on who's
piloting you feel anxiety or you don't
feel anxiety and then what happens is
this is just the way that your brain
works you doing okay good so then what
happens is like your anxiety programming
turns on because
that's just how our mind works it's like
when you see you know when you see a
toilet you have a certain automatic
programming that kicks in based on the
stimulus your mind is like your brain is
like okay we're in this situation again
let's turn on all the switches that
apply to this situation okay and once
anxiety starts it's like oh [ __ ] we know
this we've done this before
fear of death here we go right and then
it arises and then your fear of death
like sort of starts to come back and
it's like what the [ __ ] I dealt with
this and it's it's like yeah you dealt
with it but your brain is like oh this
applies that's how it works so our brain
scans our environment looks into the
past and says what have we learned about
this situation let's access it again and
I know it sounds really simple but like
that's the way that you know how to
function like you can't you know when
you get a toothbrush your brain doesn't
say like what is this strange device you
don't treat it as brand-new your brain
recalls what have I done with this thing
before what is everything that I know
about a toothbrush and let's like turn
on that circuitry again and then you
brush your teeth and you don't pay
attention so it's almost like your brain
is reactivating your anxiety right and
then you got like okay and then like
maybe there's some stuff in here I mean
maybe if you want to say a therapist you
can talk about it's kind of [ __ ] but you
know maybe there's some fear that you
are getting older and that like that's
sort of giving you like if you know if
we want to get super like if you want to
talk if it's like the Sigmund Freud sin
people say is that your your decrease in
vision is giving you a sense of your own
mortality and you are facing mortality
once again and the fear of death is
returning right so you can say all that
[ __ ] I don't know if it's true or not
yeah and then and then the other thing
is that once the anxiety starts then you
start becoming future-oriented again
right then it then it comes back to like
what if something's wrong what if
something is a little bit wrong with me
hmm
and then I ask you well what's the
problem with that you say like well like
the problem with that is that if
something will live it is wrong with me
like let's be honest Jake you didn't say
it but we all know it is that that
little something could be something
bigger down the road that's the fear
right is that it could be cancer like
maybe you've got a brain tumor like
that's what you're afraid of in the
completely irrational way and if you go
search on WebMD it gets worse yeah it's
exactly what I thought
by the way I do want to like to say it
maybe I might have said fear death I
think the overall thing was I had really
been hypochondria which led to the fear
of death yeah same same thing same yeah
same conclusion yeah that's when you
think you have cancer that's type of
community right yeah so good right so
like that's what you've been thinking
and then if we think about it like once
you start thinking that this comes to
the crux of it and this is how I think
you conquered your anxiety yep
anxiety is concerned about what point in
time like when is anxiety concerned like
what is it worried about the past the
present of the future future and when
you start living your life in a way that
you can die tomorrow when are you
concerned
what do you concil it absolutely yeah
yeah it's that simple yeah right so when
you start living in the today like
literally as we talked about earlier
that there are some things that satisfy
your anxiety and feed it right it's just
like hunger like what happens when I
like if I take a three-year-old and the
three-year-old is hungry and I give it
food does the three-year-old feel
satisfied it's not sure questioner I
think yes yes and then what happens to
the three-year-old that I feed what does
it become full absolutely and then over
time they grow right because if you feed
something yeah it grows and then what
happens to the three-year-olds hunger a
year later it gets more eats a little
more absolutely right so like then what
happens is the more that you start
living in the future if you search WebMD
or if you do other things like if you
let yourself look at the reactions of
others in cave to the reactions of
others then what happens is all you're
doing is like feeding that thing which
then grows and grows and grows and then
you did something really really amazing
which is that like you stopped feeding
it right because you felt those
anxieties when you woke up every day and
you shifted your mindset you can't
convince me that you didn't feel that
anxiety you just turned away from it you
didn't satisfy it and it probably felt
very very discomforting
as you turned away from it and you were
like okay I'm gonna start to live in the
present yeah and then you started to
feel bliss and you're like wow that
sounds super grandiose no Ben but that's
how it works like that's what Yogi's in
saying for thousands of years is that
focusing on the present and freeing
yourself from the attachment of the
future yeah and because that's what
you're doing right you're saying like I
could die tomorrow you are letting go of
anything that could happen in the future
it could all be for naught but you're
gonna do today the way that you want to
do today and that leads to bliss that's
the right word actually it's not a
grandiose term yeah that's exactly how I
felt and then what happens is as you
start living in the future who lives in
the future Jake or Jake and baked
probably Jake and Pigman here's the
reigns right now absolutely right and so
then like the more that you live in the
future the more it becomes Jake and bake
the more it becomes is my stream going
uphill or is it going downhill do people
like it or do people not like it then
you start to think these thoughts and
then the opinions of others and all that
[ __ ] starts to roll in and then your
brain is like oh [ __ ] this is anxiety
like let's start being afraid of death
again let's oh we're thinking about the
future let's throw in a little bit of
hypochondria because that's what we do
when we think about the future and you
move further and further and further
away from Jake yep yes I mean damn
that's cool that's very uh yeah I still
going I'm listening it's good this is
very OnPoint right now yeah I think
that's like kind of the end of the cycle
right so yeah I mean yeah that's it's
it's it's cool to see how you kind of
mapped it all out this is something that
the way you mapped it out I mean it's
really well put into words I've kind of
had the feeling of like this exact
exactly we just said of like I'm just
not even like so I live with my
girlfriend now and my best friend since
I was like nine years old like he's like
my brother like we talked through the
year like he helped me out when I'm out
struggling at that time in 19 I helped
out through some stuff and hid like
we've been very back and forth I'm like
empowering each other but um even my
talking to him I think the biggest thing
I realize is like I've just lost my say
I'm lost in the sauce like I want to
joke around with him like I'm kind of
lost in the sauce like I'm just I am
I've just become a little bit away from
who I really am because we're streaming
so I've been trying to take these like I
say these little steps to get back but I
really think and that maybe this is
where the problem is like I can't seem
to like 100% come in I really think it's
hard to do while maintaining a live
stream like I don't want it goat so I
don't know how deep we can go in a live
streaming but like it's just it's such a
oh man
I'm thinking now about the judgment of
that people we need to when streamers
talk about their jobs it's always like I
know what chat thinks cuz I used to be
chat but like many jobs across the board
are always demanding all the time
streaming is one of those that is like
24/7 mental demand and I think that it's
hard to find Jake while I stream as I do
because it's like if I free Verbeck and
I don't know like or maybe it's a good
thing maybe if I went fully back to Jake
Ansari maybe my she would be cool I
don't know like ah yeah anyways I just
think it's very hard to pivot and make
huge life changes while you are alive
streamer because there's just like so so
Jake that's the problem just listen to
the statement you're making okay this
that statement is the problem your
salvation never came through pivoting
and making huge life changes you never
tried to pivot
you never said I'm gonna turn around 180
degrees what did you say to yourself how
did you turn around 180 degrees I just
change our mindset anyway why it's not
yes you're not carrying just like not
not carrying but to just living for
right now absolutely right you said
about what I don't care about 180
degrees and even now you're saying I
don't know how to turn things around
oh right you see it you're saying I
don't know how to go back 180 degrees to
what I used to be but that's not how you
got to where you used to be you started
by moving one degree that's what you
should focus on
and even though you say oh if I become
Jake again I don't know if my stream
will explode there it is again
still Jake and bake that's Jake and bake
hijacking Jake and he says yeah Jake
like bu bu buddy like I'm still gonna
take the reins but let's let's pretend
that you're gonna be in charge it's
still Jake ensign I'm still looking I'm
looking at Messiah and I'm about to
[ __ ] knee it in half
do you see this thing sorry it's like
yeah there's a site above my head yeah
this is a weird it's hovering always
hovering oh my god okay Amy's sorry good
no it's good it's a very minute we're
gonna break it it's very memorable it's
cool yeah right so so that's Jake Jake
is the one who can recognize that that
sign is your curse and is something to
be appreciated that your streaming
career is awesome in in like great and
that you enjoy it and it's a lot of fun
and it's like like you're lucky and it's
a burden it's like having a kid it's
like yeah it's an enjoyable and
fulfilling and awesome you have kids no
okay not a true boomer not actually
learn okay
pseudo boomer okay mr. Shido very good
and and so like the thing about kids is
like sure it's awesome and fulfilling
but it's lots of [ __ ] exhausting and
sucks sometimes yep Yeah right it's like
sometimes I wanted likes it out like
sometimes I want to play video games
until 4:00 in the morning and then like
sleep until noon but the thing is your
kid wakes up when they wake up and like
they don't even you can't hit a snooze
button and they like literally what
happened today was actually like super
cute and I loved her but she like came
and like I wanted to sleep because our
along went off at 5:00 in the morning
and then and then she like picked up my
hat like I was like sleeping and then
she was like trying to wake me up and
then she like picked up my head and like
looked it in the face and then she
kissed me on the face and then she laid
down on my pillow so that I couldn't
even lay down on the pillow and then I
put my head I was really actually really
cute it's like very nice but it was also
like I'm still tired today you know and
that's what Jake and bake live is Jake
and bake like demands your attention and
needs it's like a hungry hungry child
and you can appreciate it but also be
like man you know gotta like lay off
from time to time and you need a break
yeah but so let me ask you a question so
like where do you think you go from here
like how do we how do we help you you
help yourself yeah I mean I've like I
said I've been I've been like trying to
work towards little things I know that I
really enjoyed doing that really made me
feel like I was kind of her production
by feel like I was just purpose every
day had purpose like you know so little
things I used to work like just little
work out or a little yoga every morning
just like I've been trying to take a
little bit more personal time from
stream and like off time I think like
all little baby steps and I think what's
important is that I've kind of like
recognized and it's the way you're
putting two words is great because it's
like even easier to kind of see but I've
kind of recognized these things and I
just I kind of know how to fix them it's
just I've been taking baby steps and
like I'm not seeing results fast enough
and then like you know not seeing
yourself a step is that jqj can bake
that might be that might actually just
be a Jake thing of me just thinking like
wow you did this before you know exactly
what it feels like and what it feels
like when you have good days we're like
there's some days where like if I don't
see him for two days I'm actually with
my friends we went on a hike the day
before and I didn't go on the computer
actually like I'll wake up and I'll feel
like crisp and I'm like holy [ __ ] like
I've had a few those days where I'm just
wake up I'm like dude like and those are
those are reassuring days it's like dude
and that you can it's just gonna take a
little time some effort you can do this
like those are my reassuring days but um
anyways sorry good inside you yeah so so
I want to just point that out right so
like just just pay attention to this
thought look at this thought okay I'm
not getting better fast enough and it's
gonna take some time okay
those are like contrary to me I think
one is Jake and bacon one is Jake and
you say that the days that you're crisp
you say it's gonna take it's gonna take
some time and on other days you say it's
not happening
hmm those are two different people
holding the reins I really don't think
that that's the same person nobody
pulled her in no you're not this is
normal buddy this is how everyone is
okay so like just just let's think about
the scientific me for a second so first
of all I think I do think that you know
a lot of this stuff I can't put the
peace thing you give me the pieces of
the puzzle I just put them together like
you you're the one who's giving me this
so you know this on some level second
thing oh yeah
second thing is that you're not weird
like the reason that I'm able to do this
is because you're like other people
right like that's the only way that I
could do this it's not like I'm
discovering something brand-new for the
first time it's like this is how people
work like the design of the ID works
anxiety literally cannot exist in the
past and cannot exist in the present it
must exist in the future and if your
mind is in the present you cannot be
experiencing anxiety this is why video
games are so [ __ ] addictive because
when you're raging at your teammate in
law you're not thinking about how sorry
yeah at least for kids by the way I
don't live you know that hey don't get
me started bro
a lot of people on my stream like League
and I I'm I'm a donum I'm a big fan of
dude oh oh yeah man i culture alright
sorry let's go boomers boomers of the
world unite yeah kids because I played
the actually like for the first time a
couple weeks ago it's actually kind of
fun
hey it's just a different game it's like
apples and oranges I think it's like one
of these everyone can get kind of
hoity-toity about what their own
personal preferences are right you can
think that your personal preferences
make you greater than another human
being but it's it's more like apples and
pre-sliced packaged apples that's the
difference so you played oh yeah
interesting
we're not see I'm I don't play a lot but
I'll right now play a lot of Valor in so
I totally got sidetracked sorry you're
really making profound statements no no
that's good as well just get triggered
by legal guards great I mean I like see
us for a long time so it's fun just like
counter-strike with a little cherry on
top with all the abilities but you get
cool
yeah anyway so just thinking so so I
think you're not you're not like that
weird or anything Jake don't don't worry
about it man you're like it's completely
like I think a lot of what your thoughts
are actually quite logical even though
if they don't feel the only reason they
seem illogical is because we don't
understand like where they're coming
from like even your fear of death
returning it's like actually kind of
makes sense like it doesn't make sense
from within the mind but once you
understand how the mind works it's just
your mind is like oh we've been here
before let's turn on our programming yep
and and you know yeah so small doses of
living in the present like any other
thoughts about how you move forward from
here I have a couple of suggestions but
I'm curious like what you think umm well
I don't know I honestly I really thought
and I still think that my move back to
LA was huge being around friends and
family and kind of like being able to at
least have some what sometimes don't
like than just normal life stuff going
on however just like like timing and I
was just really bad like I you know just
unable to cause I'm like hard to see
it's just it's just out of my control I
don't I just not gonna worry about that
I'm just letting the time go on and like
until things kind of stabilize but that
was one thing I thought was a huge step
was kind of being back home true and
good little life little lifestyle things
that I I mean sounds kind of weird but I
recently bought a car I like driving I
haven't drove in years so I lived abroad
and just driving my car on the highway
makes me feel like human again sounds
kind of weird but I like I love that
feeling and like I didn't get four years
and little things like that I think are
really good actually
yeah so so I think those are awesome a
couple of other things to just think
about and and if that's sufficient I
mean that may work alright I think it
really will work just a couple cherries
on top let's call them okay so the first
thing is I think a lot of people have
this idea that doing something the
second time should be easier than doing
it the first time in my experience
that's actually not true like getting up
and working out one day is easier than
getting up and working out the
next day hmm right so like don't judge
yourself for being quote-unquote back to
square one because I actually think that
you know because you're kind of saying
like okay this is the formula that
worked for the first time therefore let
me implement it again and it should work
for the second time I think what you're
dealing with is actually different the
resurgence of the problem is a different
thing
the third time is easier than the second
time but like I don't know how to say
this it's just like you know overcoming
something once is different from
overcoming it the second time or Rio
we're coming yet
but third time is also Rio ver coming
yet I don't know if that makes sense
you mean like the first if you did it
the first time the second time is might
be difficult and more difficult but the
third time because these you've done it
you've done it this way and even it this
way maybe now you understand I think
those are actually different skills sure
okay and but the thing is doing
something again is its own skill so
therefore third fourth fifth sixth
seventh eighth ninth tenth times are
doing something again so I'll give you
just an example okay I got it so like
like actually I should have started with
this so I in my day job I'm an addiction
psychiatrist okay so like let me put it
this way when someone gets sober for the
first time it's awesome if they relapse
getting sober again is actually harder
okay because they you know they got
sober first and then they were like yeah
man I did it and then there's this whole
other layer of shame and difficulty if
they come crashing down got it right
because like building something for the
first time is different from like
cleaning out the rubble of like failing
and then trying to do it again hmm
but then the third fourth fifth time
that they relapse they actually start to
get better at it but that first relapse
is a whole different ball game from like
the first time you become sober does
that make sense yes yes right so like
getting so
the first time in relapsing relapsing is
a whole different ballgame than like
doing something first so so I would give
yourself a little bit of slack and like
cut yourself a break if it does take
longer than it's supposed to because
it's not the same thing yeah right like
like overcoming something when you were
19 was different from being a streamer
and having this artificial pressure of
the stream taking advantage of your your
personality of being very tuned in to
what people think and becoming disco
uncomfortable with their dislike like do
you see how like that's the way you've
always been but being a stream or just
[ __ ] puts that [ __ ] on steroids yeah
yeah yeah right so it's it's not like
you're not 19 anymore man and like I
don't mean that in a good way I like you
know it's like it's like it's a whole
different ballgame that you're in you're
in the big leagues now so your anxiety
is gonna have different things to feed
on and so it's not it's gonna take it
may take longer the next thing is that I
would I think it would really help you
to be present in the tension so in the
past you used to be present in your
progress but the question is can you be
present in not progressing and like I
don't even know if that makes sense but
like if you can just even acknowledge
that like okay today is a day that I
can't move one degree and if you can sit
with that and then like because if the
thing is when you don't move a single
degree what our mind tends to do is move
into the future and you think about the
consequences of failure today right but
there's a funny way that you can
actually disarm all of this [ __ ] is if
you can sit with your failure today and
not projected into the future mm-hmm and
it's kind of saying that's kind of like
what I'm doing with the fact that
there's a virus going on and like I'm in
LA like I can't control I'm just kind of
letting it great perfect I think that's
that's because you're kind of saying
like oh I'm stuck and I'm not like I
came here to do this and it's not
happening is that what you mean
yeah but I'm very real about it like I'm
just like it's out of my control like I
got
that kind of play out and then I can
beautiful those steps right so I have to
let that play out is not like you trying
to plan for the exits right so if your
anxiety was active if jake and make was
active what you would be doing is
looking for the exits and looking for
the bathrooms planning for eventualities
but what's happening Jake is like
nothing I can do bro yeah just gotta let
it play out
and then when things calm down I'll
figure out what I'm gonna do and Jake
and I don't say pro but yeah yeah yeah
yeah
si bro um do you yeah I my biggest
concern is that it's not inclusive to
certain portions of our audience but I
sort of use them in gender-neutral way
which may mean misogynistic oh yeah well
it's the internet so you're everything I
don't know yeah so I like you know I I'd
say that even if you can sit with the
tension of not moving forward and be in
the present of not advancing that in a
weird way can pull the plug out from
your anxiety does that make sense like
you don't have to be progressing to be
in the present the key thing is to be in
the present you don't have to be taking
those baby steps even if you sit with
the failure of not being able to take a
baby step today it'll actually still do
the same thing okay
and the last thing is sometimes I teach
people how to meditate so I can teach do
you meditate um no when I was night one
of things I tried and I actually got to
a point where I tell Sharon a time
stream so I there's like one song that
triggers my favorite song I'll expect my
for relaxation song and there's a point
route like I'll just practice meditation
YouTube techniques and that one fit I
was like super spiritually meditating it
was jr. and he kind of like taught me a
little bit and there's one point I could
meditate so if you if that I hadn't
headphones in with music and I could
tune out the music was gone and like it
was really cool actually but I know I do
not meditate but I thought sure you can
think that you do you meditate I think
for see one's dreams no yeah yes I'm
sorry you do meditate yeah sure yeah so
I wanted to share that with you cuz I
thought that was super but that was
actually really cool at that and that's
like yeah a lot of people don't believe
in meditation but I thought it was
really cool that it's real
yeah
yeah no I do not do you want to learn
today I mean maybe yeah I'm open for
everything I'm hope I'm an open-minded
person and I'm ready for anything I
think except for okay things so okay I
was gonna say a joke but go for anything
Billy I don't need to do that I'll say
I'm up for anything except for but stuff
like that's the joke I was gonna say but
like it's I don't know if this is the
right context streaming is like just in
there it's just taking fake talking okay
just trying to make a joke and Havok you
so that's what I'm saying it's like
letting him talk but just be aware who's
talking right so like let him out from
time to time all right
I think Jake's Jake's been operating
long enough Jake and Baker
shake it bake it deserves it a run on
the on the track you know I gotta let
them exercise and come out there from
time to time but yeah yeah so you said
maybe and you said you're up for
anything so I'm not quite sure yes okay
yes I would all right so I'll teach you
a meditation technique and and you know
what I would tell you is that the goal
of is you people ask me how often should
I meditate and then I say you know three
to five minutes to start out with three
to five times a week but in your case
the answer is gonna be today okay right
so like be careful about setting a
schedule for yourself in terms of
meditation we do yoga that's really good
so you have yes so the last thing is
that you you know may be worth your
while to see a therapist or mental
health professional if this stuff
continues or starts to impair your
function okay right so like I'm sure
that someone somewhere could diagnose
you with an anxiety disorder because
people like diagnosing people with
things but that's not something you I'm
not I'm not telling you you have this
it's just like you need a more thorough
evaluation and they'll ask you a lot of
questions that I didn't ask you like for
example you know does anyone in your
family have anxiety and like you know
how long did it last and all this kind
of good stuff
so you know having to find the exits by
the way is something called agoraphobia
so that that sense of of like needing to
escape and needing
safety and being assured of like safety
is like oftentimes or is one
manifestation of something called
agoraphobia which sometimes also people
call his like fear of going outside so
they stay at home because they're afraid
of like what could happen if they leave
the house yeah yeah so you know I I'd
say that if it really starts to affect
you I'd really strongly consider seeing
a mental health professional and see if
you actually you know do fit criteria
for an anxiety disorder and there are
treatments for that treatments for
anxiety disorders include like
psychotherapy like talk therapy exposure
therapy which is when you kind of like
expose yourself to whatever you know
induces the anxiety in medication yeah
yeah so let's meditate let me just think
I don't want to say anything else any
questions for me uh no okay I'm not
really I mean yeah so something else for
you to just chew on so you know
sometimes I talk about Karma garma hmm
and and you know you don't have to
believe this it's just I find it
fascinating that like you know I think
that your initial bout of anxiety was
part of your the way I see that I'm not
saying it's true it's just the way that
I conceptualize people I think I look
through them through the lens of karma
and the really interesting thing is that
without your fear of death I don't think
you would have become the person that
you are today so I see a strong karmic
influence there that essentially like
you know that was a pretty big event
that altered the course of your life and
if you feel so inclined to indulge in
this kind of irrational thinking and
then I would encourage you to think a
little bit about your current challenge
and whether that's also life signaling
you to like take take stock of where you
are right now and don't just act on Auto
because that's essentially what your
fear of death did for you back then is
it like kind of woke you up and helped
you recalibrate and put you on a path
that it sounds like has been very
enriching for you as well as like people
who watched you yeah so just something
to toss out and think about if you if
you want
appreciate ya okay so any thoughts about
that I
I mean I've I get I think I've thought
something similar just like is
everything I'm doing right now
the not the word isn't right but it's
like is there something that is like I
don't know like deeper that is just not
not correct right now like is they yeah
I thought yeah yeah yeah so I encourage
you to continue thinking about it you
know I I don't know so being sort of a
scientist by background like it's kind
of interesting because I don't know if
that's true but if you look at things
from a data perspective just because
it's true doesn't mean that it doesn't
have utility right so like
good evidence that we rethinking your
life through like a broader perspective
has utility and positive outcomes even
if it's not true hmm anyway so so I'm
glad you're thinking about it and
encourage you to continue thinking about
it maybe meditating on it exploring it
talking with your friends and and your
brother and girlfriend and stuff like
that going for long drives and mulling
it over it's a good one yeah going for
hikes things like that yeah
okay so let's meditate so sit up
straight and I'm gonna teach you the
practice that we do relatively often on
the stream but I'll just you know do it
again because we haven't taught it in a
little while and it's actually a really
really good practice for anxiety and
part of the reason it's a good practice
for anxiety is because when your mind
becomes anxious you actually activate
like your adrenaline system and you're
like danger neurocircuitry so you start
to feel like you're in danger and your
heart starts beating fast you start
getting sweaty your stomach feels a lot
to me yep so this this technique in some
so it's a weird amount of scientific
support so has some very basic
scientific support and has clinical
support but the middle part we don't
really know to be true which is weird
but basically what this technique does
is shuts off your sympathetic nervous
system and reactivates your
parasympathetic nervous system so it
shuts off your adrenaline and like kind
of like calms you down and like
activates your vagus nerve vagus nerve
is what slows down your heart adrenaline
pumps up your heart there's a vagus
nerve here I hit it you knock you out I
didn't like that one okay vagus nerve
actually runs what kind of along your
throat but I'm okay anyway second people
get yeah I mean it's it is over there
but it's like deeper it's not like near
the surface of your neck okay well I am
feeling a little nervous for now so I'm
really curious then great
so is your nose clogged just one nostril
but it's fine I can breathe with my nose
okay
so low it let me see yeah okay so one of
your nostrils is gonna be more close
than the other do you have a deviated
septum
you don't know ever been to the doctor
for that I know that is never been to
the doctor for it
okay is is the same nostril always
closed for you no but I should keep an
eye on that I've never kept tonight all
right wait yeah it's my left one so okay
good someone remember that okay so if
you're curious about that we can have a
another conversation about so I'm sort
as the rhythm of your nostrils opening
and closing but can you do this just
fall down yep great so I want you to
take your thumb and block your right
nostril
yep and then breathe in through your
left and then block this switch and
breathe out breathe in through the right
nostril again and when you have a full
breath of air switch and breathe out
breathe in through the same switch and
breathe out in switch out
I'll keep talking but go ahead close
your eyes B then switch out in switch
out it's okay yo
it's okay to yawn if you need to in
switch out and now continue at your own
pace remember to switch on a full breath
good so that in in switch on a full
breath we'll practice for about 60 to 90
seconds
you
go ahead and finish the round that
you're on Laker eyes remain closed let
your hands relax when you're done with
around and just sit and enjoy
oh hi here meditate no d1d I know I was
telling the story about you earlier it's
okay I'll bring her a minute okay come
here okay
Oh am I still meditating huh am I still
meditating I don't know are you
he told me what was that like film is
okay I could feel my heart and I was and
actually when I felt my heart I was
gonna stop and say am I supposed to hear
my heart beating but then I turned that
potential negative thought into a
positive thought and instead I embraced
my heartbeat and I wanted to feel the
rhythm and think about what it's beating
and where all the Bloods going that's
why I did actually in my head right now
well sounds great I hope so how was it
was it a pleasant experience yeah it was
I mean so I gave flu or something but it
was for me the biggest thing about
meditating was always that you have a
sense of control over your body that
usually don't have a night
yeah that's maybe that like you can kind
of feel yourself and I don't really do
that really but yeah there's definitely
that was positive so as you were paying
attention to your heart were you
thinking thoughts or were you just
feeling things there was a lot of fun
but then I started to just to try to at
the very end there try to just focus on
the beat and I tried to just envision it
kind of reading the right so as as you
and whatever your vision does great yep
yeah as you envision it and you focus on
it what happens to your thoughts they
weren't there anymore
yeah it wasn't yeah it was yeah they
weren't there yeah so I think that's the
point right is to free yourself from the
thoughts be quiet so that Daddy can
teach no you want attention this is what
we call attention seeking behavior any
any so Jake you know I'd hey hey she
wants to be a streamer I guess she's
performing for someone okay so Jake one
any questions for me before you wrap up
because I think I'm gonna have to go cuz
she's hey you want to get out of here
you wanna stay uh I don't I don't know
if I have any questions right now I mean
I was it was kind of it's nice to hear
you know how you kind of portrayed
things and it's things that I kind of
knew but it maybe I just kind of was
looking through like it was a little
fuzzy still looking at my picture what I
think is going on yeah I think you help
paint the picture a little bit better
um for me I think I'm always someone
that like I said before is very
strong-willed and I'd it's not it's not
gonna be the same but I really think
that the knowledge under say of what's
causing things is is the first is like
for me like a huge step in and after
that it's really just not not worrying
about it taking a short a long time it
like it did the first time and comparing
it but just kind of just you know using
that knowledge to I don't know float I
flow out of things as it's supposed to
happen
day by day instead of yeah bring about
yeah when beautifully put man but I
think you know I I agree with you that
like understanding what's going on is
the first step and and one of the things
that I say on stream pretty often is
good diagnosis perceives good treatment
and until you know what's going on you
can't really fix any things true alright
so thank you very much man it was great
having you and thank you I gotta ask you
someone said that you speak Chinese I
want to hear it
wash War II the ancient one Kusha war
shins I what is it um me and Hojo male
Shaw male not even sure sure
what you want to say like well I'm just
I'm thinking of the word well Wong love
John Wong
well no it's only uh okay nice words I
dodged Oh - where is she John when the
dojo dojo is Texas I could be so nice
yeah nice that's so cool that was back
in 2005 so it's been 15 years war shin
zai ye hmm I don't know how to say order
food like I know how to say
yeah and tie the end tie D anti-fun
Acadians huts but oh sure did you ever
travel them trying to start the rental
question no I've never been to China
I've been to Japan like three or four
times but never to people yeah that's
had asked that yeah cool man
alright well uh yeah I think thank you
so much for having me and talking it was
I stuck to someone who I think knows
what they're talking about and yeah I
don't this is the end
sure oh okay so maybe we'll play dota
sometime message you might steam ID well
yeah absolutely and then and then maybe
you can help me with my Mandarin and I'd
also speak a little bit of Japanese so
I'm rusty on the HESI yeah I'm gonna get
you on it I'm gonna get you in on the
dota game with admiralbulldog you know
who that is
yes I do yeah I'm we're gonna get you in
on a bulldog game I'll do that for sure
all right sounds good okay thank you
thank you all right